## Completed Chapter 01 Understanding Database Structure
### Resources and Materials.  
[📄 Click here to open the Annotated PDF](resources_used/01-understanding-database-structure-annotations.pdf)
### Key Insights and Progress Log.  
>A "datum" is a piece of information. `Data` is simply the plural form of datum. (generally recorded/recordable information).
>One of the simplest tools to visualize data is a `table`. A `table` (also sometimes called a `relation`) is merely a two-dimensional grid consisting of rows and columns. (may also be called `base relvar` when used in database). Data can be names, numbers, dates, charecters (like "+" or "-") or it may be presented in a multitude of other formats, (in boxes of the tables per say).
>The formats used to render data are not random. All databases contain something known as a `metadata`, which is data that describes the structure and formatting of the data itself, basically "data about the data" e.g... Date_of_birth field may contain metadata that constricts information in the field into dd-dd-yyyy format etc.
>The term `database` can be simply defined as a collection of data arranged for ease and speed of search and retrieval by the computer (represented graphically by a multitiered cyclindrical icon). Data inside the database is typically stored in a collection of tables, each table contains a specific set of data which may relate to and reference other data from other tables in the database.
>The purpose of database is to facilitate the interaction, organisation  and analysis of related data across a multitude of sources.
>The `rows` in a given table are considered `records`. They may be referred to as `tuples`. The `columns` in a table may generally be referred to as `fields`/`attributes`. Fields/attribues are the catagories used to define the data within the records. Every record is broken down into several fields that represent single elements of data describing a specific thing.
>
>Understanding how tables refer to and relate to one another is key to understanding essential database architechture. The `relational database` is a database design (the most common form of database design actually), to understand the functioning of relational databases, its important to understand the role of `key fields`.
>A relational database contains a multitude of tables, these tables relate to one another on the basis of `key fields`, we start with 2 types of key fields, `primary key field` and `foreign key field`.
>The `primary key` acts as the unique identifier for a record in the table, i.e... each record's primary key must be unizer, record by record and must not be null. Although in the primary key field of every record, there must be a unique data, the other fields contain data that may be replicated in more than one record. A `foreign key` field is a field within a table that is acting as a primary kwy in another table in th database. It is the overlap of various key fields among tables that facilitate the all important relatability within the aptly named relational database. These relations are commonly visualized using a `database schema` also known as an `entity relationship diagram (ERD)`, which serves as a kind of blueprint for the database, showing how multiple tables are connected by common fields, we can use the 1 and ∞ symbols to show the "one-to-many" "many-to-one", "one-to-one" and "many-to-many" e.g... 1:∞ is one to many, basically these symbols describe the nature of the interactivity between tables.
>Sometimes 2 or more fields together define the primary key, this scenario is of a `composite primary key` or a `composite key` (ponder how)
>
>When developing a database using SQL, a specific `data type` must be designated for each and every column used, and this specific data type assigned to a column is stored a `metadata`.
>Data types vary slightly depending on the version of SQL we're using, but we will have `numeric data types`, `charecter or text based data types`, 'dates and times' and 'boolean values'.
>`Numeric Data` includes integers, which usually comes with a length limitation. When integer data type will not do, we can use `decimal data` (which can also be length restricted).
>`Charecter or text-based data types may be configured to hold both a fixed-length string of charecters and a variable-length string.
>`Date and Times` are important data in many circumstances, SQL allows us to choose from a variety of different dat-and-time layouts, we can also format a table to just hold an year, or anything we like. Also SQL date and time formats have build in numeric values that allow the database to interpret requests for chronologically specific outputs!.
>A `Boolean` value is data expressed as either True or False.
>
>SQL operates in a wide variety of software packages known as `relational database management systems (RDBMSs)`. These systems facilitate the application of SQL when one is issuing commands and posing questions to a database, we will be using SQLite in this book. Baically RDBMS software provides an interface (usually known as an SQL browser) for the users to interact with the data stored in the database, its not a database itself. Some RDBMS are graphic by design, some are more text based, they also vary in their approach to SQL and the way they present database information.
>The fact that we are telling RDBMS what information to present to us defines SQL as a "declarative" programming language, in contrast to other programming languages like C++, Java etc, these are more procedural, in that they handle creating and running a program from start to finish (allocating memory, including existing reference files, etc) With Sql, all of the memory allocation and other procedural duties are handled by the RDBMS.
>
>SQL stands for structured query language, and has set a standard for how we communicate with relational databases. The most common SQL command is `SELECT`, an SQL `query` is usually comprised of the `SELECT` `keyword` in combination with other SQL `keywords` and references to the data involved in the query. There is a mandated structure for a query known as the `syntax` of the query. The `syntax` may vary from one RDBMS implementation to other, but they are pretty similar for all of them, if we do a mistake in the mandated structure of a query, we will get a `syntax error`.
>
>A `query` is a request that returns information from the database in the form of records, a query can be composed of several SQL `statements`. An SQL `statement` is any valid piece of code that is executed by the RDBMS. A `clause` is a subsection of a query, containing atleast one `keyword` and the relevant information to be used in conjection with that keyword. (words in all caps are sql keywords).
>An SQL statement can be comprised of many clauses, each containing at least one keyword, as well as references to fields and tables.
>A complete SQL statement can also be a complete query, a query contain multiple clauses, each starting with a keyword.
>
>We now have a basic grasp of database architechture and how we interact with it. We now will move towards a more hands-on learning approach, we select the SQLite RDBMS for this book since its very accessible and most of it is applicable to other RDBMS's, and the most widely used one, used in mobile devices, computers and even automobiles.
>
>
