## Completed Chapter 03 Introducing Lists.
### Resources and Materials.  
[📄 Click here to open the Annotated PDF](resources_used/03-introducing-lists-annotations.pdf)
### Key Insights and Progress Log.  
>A list is an ordered collection of items, it lets us store sets of information in one place, not matter how many items there are. In python lists are indicated by square brackets ([]) and individual items are stored inside it seperated by commas. we can print a list by the `print()` command and python will return its entire representation including the square brackets.
>We can access elements in a list too, since its an ordered collection every element has a position or `index`, the first element indexed as 0 and so on while the last element is indexed -1 and so on, we can access any element by using `<listname>[<index>]` for example `print(<listname>[<index>]`) will print the element (without the square brackets) in the list at the specified index, we can also use string methods on any element in a list, example `<listname>[<index>].title()`, etc so you can just use the indexed list name like `<listname>[<index>]` as a variable valued the string at that index! you can use the individual values from a list this way, example, f-strings!, `print(f"My required element is {<listname>[<index>]})`.
>Most lists we create are dynamic, so we would need to `modify/add/remove` elements from a list, we can do so easily in python, to modify a list, you can just use `<listname>[<index>]` as a simple vaiable again, which you can juist reassign a new value to! for example `<listname>[<index>] = '<new value'` will instantly modify the list by reassigning the previous element in the list at the specified index the new value you provide, just like a variable is reassigned a new value. We can also add new elements to a list easily, the first of the many ways to add new data in a list in python is to append an item to a list using the `append()` method (append will only add the element at the end of the list), for example `<listname>.append('<value_to_be_added>')` will instanty add the value provided in the argument of the append method to the specified list without changing the other values of the list, (building up empty lists using the append method is very common), the second way we can add data to a list is by using he `insert()` method, allowing us to add a new element at any position in a list unlike append, we can use this by `<listname>.insert(<index>, '<value_to_be_inserted>')`, this way we easily insert an element to any position in a list, shifting the position of the elements which had index equal or higher than the inserted element by 1 to the right. Finally we can remove elements from a list in many ways according to our needs based on its position OR its value too!, the first is removing an item using del statement, which we can use if we know the position of the item we want to remove from the list and we dont want to use the deleted element in any way (since we wont be able to access what was removed), `del <listname>[<index>]` will do the job perfectly provided the index, but if you want to use the deleted item in some way while deleting by index, you can use the `pop()` method, it removes the last item in a list by default and can also remove an item from any index you want if you feed the index to its argument simply with `<listname>.pop(<index>)` (leave the argument of pop empty to remove the last element), now how to use the popped element after popping it? you assign it to a variable WHILE popping it using `<variable_name> = <listname>.pop(<index>)` 2 stones at once see? the list is edited like you wanted and you stored the popped value. Next, you can remove an element from a list by its value too! not knowing the index, using the `remove()` method, for example `<listname>.remove(<value_to_be_removed>)`, now you can use the argument here in 2 ways, first is just feeding it the value directly, for example `<listname>.remove('ducati')` removed the *first appeareance of the element ducati in the list, or you can use the name of a varaible that has the same value as the element to be removed, for example `too_expensive = 'ducati'` and then using `<listname>.remove(too expensive)` will remove the first appearence of ducati in the list easily, and we can also keep working with the value that was removed example using `print(f"\A {too_expensive.title()} is too expensive for me.")`.
>Next we moved on to the ways by which we can Organise Lists seamlessly, choosing the order of elements in a desirable way, first thing there is an original order, for example the order in which we recieved the data from users, now we can use python to organise the list in a number of ways depending on our situation
