## Completed Chapter 02 Variables and Simple Data Types.  
### Key Insights and Progress Log
Started with understanding what actually happens in our machine when we run a python file (indicated by .py suffix).  
Learnt about syntax highlighting, a very usefil feature of text editors like VS Code.  
Understood the term variables and their values, and how we can change the value of a variable at any time (python always keeps track of its current value), also that its a useful thing to write the variable name in lowercase and the constant (a variable whose value we dont change throughout the program) name by uppercase for easy distinction, finally understood the rules for naming of variables.    
Dived into errors that might appear dur to naming (name error) or syntax errors and how they are recorded as a traceback, also learnt how python code does not worry about english grammer errors, also finally internalized how variables are labels that we assign to values, not exactly boxes where we store values.  
String was the first data type we worked in, anything inside quotes (single or double) is the string datatype, also there being 2 types of quotes help us use apostrophe and quotes withing a string if done smartly.  
Methods are actions that python can perform in a piece of data, usually brought upon the data value of a varable by "<variabel_name>.<method_name>()" the parenthesis after the method name are to be left empty if there is no need of a special task to be fed into the method to modify it. Some methods to change case in a string are title(), upper(), lower(), the method names being self explainatory.   
Sometimes, we might want to use Variables in Strings, we can use an f-string for this purpose, to insert a varible into a string, we place the letter f just before the opening quotation mark, put braces on the name or names of the variables we want to display value of in the string. f is an acronym for format, we can do a lot with f-strings, if used smartly.  
Whitespaces are any nonprinting charecters,such as spaces, tabs and end of lin symbols. We can use the charecter combinations \t, \n for tab and newline respectively in a string, or thier combinations \n\t comes in handy too.  
Stripping whitespace becomes just as important in programming, often undectatble to the human eye but significant to the python interpreter, python makes it east to elimnate extra whitespace from all sorts of data, for a string we can use the methods lstrip(), rstrip(), and strip() to eliminate any and all types of whitespaces on the left, right or both sides of a string seamlessly, also we need to know a method only works permanently if it is applied to a new variable or reassigned to the same variable correctly.  
Removing Prefixes and suffices is a common task, we can do so by using the methods removeprefix() and removesuffix(), the bracket containing the prefic or suffic you want removed from the data value of the variable its being applied on e.g... url.removeprefix("https://") is a simple way to clean the url's.  
A syntax error occors when python doesnt  recognise a section of the program as a valid python code, it can occur when we use apostrope or quotes in strings, smart use of single and double quotes help us avoid these, namely the syntac error of unterminated string literal usually.  
Then we dived into another common data type in python i.e... Numbers, we worked with Integers and Floats in Python to get used to their workings, and common arithmetic operations the python supports, we can add, sub, mult, div as well as exponentiate easily in python, usually python follows th order of operations, but we can modily them by using parenthsis as needed, we also saw some complications which occur in floats while using programming languages, we also understood how underscored work (or does not work) in numbers.  
Multiple Assignment while using Variables can save us a lot of time, e.g... x, y, z = 1, 2 ,3 helps us assign values to 3 variables at once.  
Comments are a very useful feature in most programming languages, we should use them as needed to help us make our code more readable and develop good habits, anything follow by a # in a line of code is ignored by the python interpreter, its a very beneficial habit to add meaningfull comments in our program.    
Finally we concluded the 2nd Chapter of python crash course by understanding the Zen of Python, which can be displayed by the comman "import this".   

