## Completed Chapter 05 If Statements.  
### Resources and Materials.  
[📄 Click here to open the Annotated PDF](resources_used/05-if-statements-annotations.pdf)
### Key Insights and Progress Log.  
>Programming often involves examining a set of conditions and deiciding which action to take based on those conditions. Python's `if` statement allows us to examine the current state of a progeam and respond appropriately to that state.
>At the heart of `if` statement is an expression that can be evaluated as True or False and is called a `conditional test`.
>The first conditional test we learnt is `Checking for Equality`. The `equality operator` i.e... `==` returns `True ` if the values on the left and right side of the operator match, and `False` if they dont. Know that a single equal sign `=` is really a `statement` which sets the value of the variable as a label for a value, e.g... `car = "audi"` sets the value of the variable 'car' equal to the string ""audi"". on the other hand double equal sign, `==` asks a question, `car == "audi"` - "is the value of car equal to audi?" (which will return "True" if we had set the variable car as above). Know that checking for equality is case sensitive in python, sometimes it is advantageous but if you dont want it, you can use the lower() method, by brain! (know that the lower() method doesnt change the value that is originally stored).
>We can also `Check for Inequality` in python by using the `inequality operator`, i.e... `!=`, if the 2 values on either side of this operator does not match, it returns `True` and when they does, we get `False`.
>We can also easily do `Numerical Comparisons`, all the operators `==` `!=`, `>`, `<`, `>=`, `<=` work as you would expect them to, returning `True` or `False` as prompted, for example coding `age = 18` then `print(age > 27)` will return False... so on.
>We may want to `Check Multiple Conditions` at the same time, the keywords `and` and `or` can help in these situations. We can combine 2 conditional statements by an `and` to check if they are both True, or by an `or` to check if either is True, e.g... in 2 tests combined with `and` we will get `True` if both test passes, and a `False` if either or both tests fail / in 2 tests combined with `or`, we get `True` if either or both tests pass and a `False` only when both tests fail, after coding `age = 18`, `age > 17 and age<=27` returns `True` and `age < 5 or age == 27` returns `False`. (we can also seperate the 2 conditonal statements visually be putting them in parenthesis, doesnt affect the code but improves readability).
>We can also `Check Whether a Value Is in a List` by using the keyword `in`, e.g... `<value> in <list_name>` returns `True` if the list contains the value, and `False` if it does not (know that its case sensitive, it needs to be the exact value in the list for `True`) basically the keyword `in` tells python to check for the existence of <value> in <list_name> list. Conversely, we can also `Check Whether a Value is Not in a List`, by the keyword `not in` (works as obvious).
>A `Boolean Expression` is just another name for the conditonal test. A `Boolean Value` is either `True` or `False`, just like the value of a conditional exression after it has been evaluated.
>
